# **Getting and Cleaning**
# **Course Project**

## Codebook

### Data
The original data collects information about _Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones_ and can be downloaded [here](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip). This codebook describes the data set called "dataset_tidy" that is generated by modifying the original data.

### Modifications
The original data was modified using five steps: \
1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set. \
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. \
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set. \
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. \
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. \
\
These steps are detailed in the script called "run_analysis.R". 

### Variables
The dataset has 81 columns. The first two columns are the variables that allow to identify the subject (Subject Id) and the activity that the subject performed. In addition, there are 79 columns that contain the averaged mean and standard deviation information for each subject and activity. The variables are the following: 

* tBodyAccMeanX
* tBodyAccMeanY
* tBodyAccMeanZ
* tBodyAccStdX
* tBodyAccStdY
* tBodyAccStdZ
* tGravityAccMeanX
* tGravityAccMeanY
* tGravityAccMeanZ
* tGravityAccStdX
* tGravityAccStdY
* tGravityAccStdZ
* tBodyAccJerkMeanX
* tBodyAccJerkMeanY
* tBodyAccJerkMeanZ
* tBodyAccJerkStdX
* tBodyAccJerkStdY
* tBodyAccJerkStdZ
* tBodyGyroMeanX
* tBodyGyroMeanY
* tBodyGyroMeanZ
* tBodyGyroStdX
* tBodyGyroStdY
* tBodyGyroStdZ
* tBodyGyroJerkMeanX
* tBodyGyroJerkMeanY
* tBodyGyroJerkMeanZ
* tBodyGyroJerkStdX
* tBodyGyroJerkStdY
* tBodyGyroJerkStdZ
* tBodyAccMagMean
* tBodyAccMagStd
* tGravityAccMagMean
* tGravityAccMagStd
* tBodyAccJerkMagMean
* tBodyAccJerkMagStd
* tBodyGyroMagMean
* tBodyGyroMagStd
* tBodyGyroJerkMagMean
* tBodyGyroJerkMagStd
* fBodyAccMeanX
* fBodyAccMeanY
* fBodyAccMeanZ
* fBodyAccStdX
* fBodyAccStdY
* fBodyAccStdZ
* fBodyAccMeanFreqX
* fBodyAccMeanFreqY
* fBodyAccMeanFreqZ
* fBodyAccJerkMeanX
* fBodyAccJerkMeanY
* fBodyAccJerkMeanZ
* fBodyAccJerkStdX
* fBodyAccJerkStdY
* fBodyAccJerkStdZ
* fBodyAccJerkMeanFreqX
* fBodyAccJerkMeanFreqY
* fBodyAccJerkMeanFreqZ
* fBodyGyroMeanX
* fBodyGyroMeanY
* fBodyGyroMeanZ
* fBodyGyroStdX
* fBodyGyroStdY
* fBodyGyroStdZ
* fBodyGyroMeanFreqX
* fBodyGyroMeanFreqY
* fBodyGyroMeanFreqZ
* fBodyAccMagMean
* fBodyAccMagStd
* fBodyAccMagMeanFreq
* fBodyBodyAccJerkMagMean
* fBodyBodyAccJerkMagStd
* fBodyBodyAccJerkMagMeanFreq
* fBodyBodyGyroMagMean
* fBodyBodyGyroMagStd
* fBodyBodyGyroMagMeanFreq
* fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagMean
* fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagStd
* fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagMeanFreq
